Course Syllabus for "SSE101: Survey of Systems Engineering - Part 1"
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to **Survey of Systems Engineering - Part 1**. This course is
the product of a joint effort between NASA and the Saylor Foundation. As
the inspiration and major content provider for this project, NASA's role
cannot be understated. Their team of experts were integral in getting
this course up and running, and ultimately in the fashion you see today.
The Saylor staff served as technical and educational navigators in this
process, offering support and input in online course design. Our
excellent A/V team put together the videos that comprise the meat of
this course. We are all extremely proud to have
the inaugural, dual-branded NASA and Saylor course, living on
Saylor.org. Each unit of the course will preset you with a survey of
space systems engineering topics. For a more complete grasp of all that
space systems engineering entails, make sure to visit Lisa Guerra's
[Space System Engineering course](http://spacese.spacegrant.org/), which
SSE101 was adapted from. This course features YouTube playlist (also
available on [Vimeo](http://vimeo.com/sayloracademy/videos)) as the main
method of content delivery in every unit. Every unit has multiple videos
in each playlist, so make sure to watch them all. At the end of most
videos in the playlists, there will be additional required resources.
There will also be unit assessments to gauge your learning, discussion
forum activities, deliverables for the optional Mars Sample Return
mission project, and a multiple choice final exam. Lastly, in Units 1,
3, 4, and 6, we have posted archived Google Hangouts on Air with NASA
engineers and scientists who use the lessons you will be learning
in their everyday lives at the Goddard Space Flight Center. **Grading:**
Unit quizzes: 10% each (for a total of 60% of your final grade) Final
exam: 40% *Note: To pass this course, you will need to complete every
quiz and the final exam and have a cumulative grade of 70% or higher.
Unit quizzes cannot be retaken but the final exam can after a one week
waiting period.* Mars Sample Return Mission Project: You will have the
opportunity to apply the concepts you are learning to a real NASA
mission currently in development, a Mars Sample Return mission. Look out
for full project details at the end of Unit 1. **Course
Lecturers:** NASA Project Manager, Jeff Volosin; NASA Mission Systems
Engineer, [Mike Menzel](http://www.jwst.nasa.gov/meet-menzel.html);
and Nobel prize winner, [Dr. John C.
Mather](http://www.jwst.nasa.gov/meet-mather.html) **Primary
Resources:** This course is comprised of pre-existing content created by
NASA as well as new video and assessments created specifically for this
course. The main sources of NASA content are: Lisa Guerra’s [Space
Systems Engineering](http://spacese.spacegrant.org/) NASA's [Systems
Engineering
Handbook](http://www.saylor.org/site/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/NASA_SE_Handbook_2007.pdf)
NASA’s [Science Visualization Studio](http://svs.gsfc.nasa.gov/) NASA’s
[Systems Engineering Seminar](http://ses.gsfc.nasa.gov/) All of the
content created for this course is in the Public Domain. **Additional
Tips:**
-   Although not required, you are encouraged to work with a partner or
    team as you complete this course. There will be a number of
    assignments that, while designed for individuals, can be completed
    with a group and potentially broaden your understanding of the topic
    at hand.
-   This is an extremely portable course. Everything you will need to
    learn is contained within one YouTube playlist per unit, including
    links to supplementary readings and activities. Although we designed
    Saylor.org to enhance your experience, you can (and are encouraged
    to!) take this playlist anywhere, whether that be another platform,
    or just opened on your phone through YouTube. Learning opportunities
    should be at your fingertips always, and we think we've done that
    here.


